PETE LEPAGE: Just in
time for Google I/O,
Chrome 74 is landing now.
It adds support for
private class fields,
allows you to detect when a user
has requested a reduced motion
experience, adds support
for CSS transition events,
and of course, plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 74.
Class fields
simplify class syntax
by avoiding the need for
constructor functions
just to define
instance properties.
In Chrome 72, we added support
for public class fields,
and I said private class
fields were in the works.
I'm happy to say that
they've landed in Chrome 74.
The new private field syntax
is similar to public fields,
except that you
mark the field as
private by using a pound sign.
Think of the pound sign as
being part of the field name.
Remember, private fields
are just that-- private.
They're accessible only inside
the class, but not available
outside the class body.
To read more about public
and private class fields,
check out Mathias's post on
class fields linked in the post
below.
Some users have reported
getting motion sick
when viewing parallax scrolling,
zooming, and other motion
effects.
To address this, many
operating systems
provide an option to reduce
motion whenever possible.
Chrome now provides a media
query, prefers-reduced-motion,
part of the media
queries level 5 spec,
that makes it easy to check
when this option is turned on.
Imagine I have a sign-up
button that draws attention
to itself with a slight motion.
The new query lets me
shut off the motion just
for that button.
Check out Tom's article
on the new query
selector linked below.
The CSS Transition specification
requires that transition events
are sent whenever a
transition is enqueued,
starts, ends, or is canceled.
The events have been supported
in other browsers for a while,
but until now, they weren't
supported in Chrome.
In Chrome 74, you can now
listen for transitionrun,
transitionstart, transitionend,
and transitioncancel events,
making it possible to
track or change behavior
whenever a transition is run.
Feature policies allow
you to selectively
enable, disable, and modify the
behavior of APIs and other web
features.
This is done either through
the Feature Policy header
or through an allow
attribute on an iframe.
In Chrome 74, you can get
a list of features allowed
with the
allowedFeatures API, you
can check if a specific feature
is allowed with allowsFeature,
and you can get
a list of domains
used on the current page
that allow a specific feature
with getAllowlistForFeature.
Check out the Introduction
to Feature Policy post
for more details.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 74
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
Personally, I'm pretty excited
about the KV storage API--
a new, fast, async key
value storage service that's
available as an origin trial.
And don't forget-- Google
I/O is just a few weeks away,
and we'll have lots of
great new stuff for you.
So be sure to tune in and
watch, May 7th to the 9th.
More details about I/O, the
features I mentioned, and more
are in the updates post
linked in the description.
If you want a reminder
about the I/O videos,
click the Subscribe
button and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 75 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.